refactor: API changes and switch to async iterators (#29)
libp2p/interface-connection: README.md

This is a test suite and interface you can use to implement a connection. The connection interface contains all the metadata associated with it, as well as an array of the streams opened through this connection. In the same way as the connection, a stream contains properties with its metadata, plus an iterable duplex object that offers a mechanism for writing and reading data, with back pressure. This module and test suite were heavily inspired by abstract-blob-store and interface-stream-muxer.

The primary goal of this module is to enable developers to pick, swap or upgrade their connection without losing the same API expectations and mechanisms such as back pressure and the ability to half close a connection.

Publishing a test suite as a module lets multiple modules ensure compatibility since they use the same test suite.

The API is presented with both JS and Go primitives, however there is no actual limitations for it to be extended to any other language, pushing forward the cross compatibility and interop through different stacks.

## Lead Maintainer

[Jacob Heun](https://github.com/jacobheun/)

> ## Modules that implement the interface

Author: I was thinking that once we get this into `js-libp2p`, that we would run these tests into the transports test suite. This way, we can guarantee that each transport calls the `js-libp2p` upgrader as expected.

> ## Modules that implement the interface

Reviewer: It would make sense to run these on the js-libp2p Upgrader, but I think we can skip the addition to transports. The interface-transport suite already validates that the upgrader is being called, and that what it returns is what the transport returns. https://github.com/libp2p/interface-transport/blob/master/src/dial-test.js#L65

I would expect that anytime someone is creating an Upgrader, such as the Switch dialer, they should run this test suite against the connections created from that.

> ## Modules that implement the interface

Author: ok, seems a good approach! I will remove this section then

This helps ensuring that the transport is responsible for socket management, while also allowing the application layer to handle the connection management.

### Test suite

#### JS

```js
describe('your connection', () => {
  require('interface-connection/src/tests')({
    async setup () {
      return YourConnection
    },
    async teardown () {
      // cleanup resources created by setup()
    }
  })
})
```

#### Go

> WIP

## API

### Connection

A valid connection (one that follows this abstraction), must implement the following API:

- type: `Connection`
```js
new Connection({
  localAddr,
  remoteAddr,
  localPeer,
  remotePeer,
  newStream,
  close,
  getStreams,
  stat: {
    direction,
    timeline: {
      open,
      upgraded
    },
    multiplexer,
    encryption
  }
})
```
  - `<Multiaddr> conn.localAddr`
  - `<Multiaddr> conn.remoteAddr`
  - `<PeerId> conn.localPeer`
  - `<PeerId> conn.remotePeer`
  - `<Object> conn.stat`
  - `<Map> conn.registry`
  - `Array<Stream> conn.streams`

>   - `Promise<object> conn.newStream(Array<protocols>)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `Promise<object> conn.newStream(Array<protocols>)`
  - `<void> conn.removeStream(id)`
```

`close` is the `function` responsible for closing the raw connection.
`getStreams` is the `function` responsible for getting the streams muxed within the connection.
`stats` is an `object` with the metadata of the connection. It contains:
- `direction` is a `string` indicating whether the connection is `inbound` or `outbound`.
- `timeline` is an `object` with the relevant events timestamps of the connection (`open`, `upgraded` and `closed`; the `closed` will be added when the connection is closed).
- `multiplexer` is a `string` with the connection multiplexing codec (optional).
- `encryption` is a `string` with the connection encryption method identifier (optional).

#### Create a new stream

- `JavaScript` - `conn.newStream(protocols)`

Create a new stream within the connection.

`protocols` is an array of the intended protocol to use (by order of preference). Example: `[/echo/1.0.0]`

It returns a `Promise` with an object with the following properties:

```js
{
  stream,
  protocol
}
```

The stream property contains the muxed stream, while the protocol contains the protocol codec used by the stream.

#### Add stream metadata

> - `JavaScript` - `conn.addStream(stream, protocol, metadata)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `JavaScript` - `conn.addStream(stream, { protocol, ...metadata })`
```

Add a new stream to the connection registry.

`stream` is a muxed stream.
`protocol` is the string codec for the protocol used by the stream. Example: `/echo/1.0.0`

> `metadata` is an object containing the stream metadata (such as its `tags`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`metadata` is an object containing any additional, optional, stream metadata that you wish to track (such as its `tags`).

#### Remove a from the registry

- `JavaScript` - `conn.removeStream(id)`

Removes the stream with the given id from the connection registry.

`id` is the unique id of the stream for this connection.

```

- [js-libp2p-multiplex](https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-multiplex)
- [js-libp2p-secio](https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-secio)

## Badge

Include this badge in your readme if you make a module that is compatible with the `interface-connection` API. You can validate this by running the tests.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diasdavid/interface-connection/master/img/badge.png)

## Usage

### Connection

Before creating a connection from a transport compatible with `libp2p` it is important to understand some concepts:

- **socket**: the underlying raw duplex connection between two nodes. It is created by the transports during a dial/listen.

> - **multiaddr connection**: an abstraction over the socket to allow it to work with multiaddr addresses. It is a duplex connection that transports create to wrap the socket before passing to an upgrader that turns it into a standard connection (see below).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[multiaddr connection](https://github.com/libp2p/interface-transport#multiaddrconnection)**: an abstraction over the socket to allow it to work with multiaddr addresses. It is a duplex connection that transports create to wrap the socket before passing to an upgrader that turns it into a standard connection (see below).
```

- **stream**: a muxed duplex channel of the `connection`. Each connection may have many streams.

A connection stands for the libp2p communication duplex layer between two nodes. It is **not** the underlying raw transport duplex layer (socket), such as a TCP socket, but an abstracted layer that sits on top of the raw socket.

This helps ensuring that the transport is responsible for socket management, while also allowing the application layer to handle the connection management.

### Test suite

#### JS

```js
describe('your connection', () => {
  require('interface-connection/src/tests')({
    async setup () {
      return YourConnection
    },
    async teardown () {
      // cleanup resources created by setup()
    }
  })
})
```

#### Go

> WIP

## API

### Connection

A valid connection (one that follows this abstraction), must implement the following API:

- type: `Connection`
  - `new Connection({localAddr, remoteAddr, localPeer, remotePeer, newStream, close, direction, multiplexer, encryption})`
  - `<Multiaddr> conn.localAddr`
  - `<Multiaddr> conn.remoteAddr`
  - `<PeerInfo> conn.localPeer`

>   - `<PeerInfo> conn.remotePeer`

Reviewer 2: Do we need to duplicate `PeerInfo` from the peer book in every `Connection`? Can it just be the `PeerId` and if you need to know more you look it up in the peer book?

Reviewer: I kind of want to get rid of PeerInfo altogether. Really, the peerstore should just keep track of peer ids and their associated metadata.

>   - `<Direction> conn.direction`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `<String> conn.direction`
```

>   - `Promise<Stream> conn.newStream(protocol, options)`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `Promise<Stream> conn.newStream(protocol, [options])`
```

Worth noting that protocol can be an array of protocols (in case you speak different versions).

  - `Array<Stream> conn.getStreams()`
  - `Promise<> conn.close()`

It can be obtained as follows:

```js
const { Connection } = require('interface-connection')
```

#### Creating a connection instance

- `JavaScript` - `const conn = new Connection({localAddr, remoteAddr, localPeer, remotePeer, newStream, close, direction, multiplexer, encryption})`

Creates a new Connection instance.

`localAddr` is the [multiaddr](https://github.com/multiformats/multiaddr) address used by the local peer to reach the remote.
`remoteAddr` is the [multiaddr](https://github.com/multiformats/multiaddr) address used to communicate with the remote peer.
`localPeer` is the [PeerInfo](https://github.com/libp2p/js-peer-info) of the local peer.
`remotePeer` is the [PeerInfo](https://github.com/libp2p/js-peer-info) of the remote peer.
`newStream` is the `function` responsible for getting a new muxed+multistream-selected stream.
`close` is the `function` responsible for closing the raw connection.

> `direction` is a `Direction` indicating whether the connection is `INBOUND` or `OUTBOUND`.

Reviewer 2: \+ multiplexer + encryption

#### Create a new stream

- `JavaScript` - `conn.newStream(protocol, options)`

Create a new stream within the connection.

> `protocol` is the intended protocol to use. This is optional and may be `undefined`. Example: `/echo/1.0.0`

Reviewer 2: Not optional! `multistream-select` needs to know what protocol to speak.

`options` is an object containing the stream options.

> `options.abortable` is a boolean for using the abortable signal. Default value: `true`.

Reviewer 2: We've used `signal` in many other places (and also to follow the option name in the `fetch` API) and it should be passed an [`AbortSignal`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AbortSignal)

It returns a `Promise` with the instance of the created `Stream`.

#### Get the connection Streams

- `JavaScript` - `conn.getStreams()`

Get all the streams associated with this connection.

It returns an `Array` with the instance of all the streams created in this connection.

#### Close connection

- `JavaScript` - `conn.close()`

This method closes the connection to the remote peer, as well as all the streams running in the connection.

It returns a `Promise`.

#### Connection identifier

- `JavaScript` - `conn.id`

This property contains the identifier of the connection.

#### Remote address

- `JavaScript` - `conn.remoteAddr`

This getter returns the `remote` [multiaddr](https://github.com/multiformats/multiaddr) address.

#### Local address

- `JavaScript` - `conn.localAddr`

This getter returns the `local` [multiaddr](https://github.com/multiformats/multiaddr) address.

#### Remote peer info

- `JavaScript` - `conn.remotePeer`

This property contains the remote peer info of this connection.

#### Local peer info

- `JavaScript` - `conn.localPeer`

This property contains the local peer info of this connection.

#### Status of the connection

- `JavaScript` - `conn.status`

> This property contains the status of the connection. It can be either `OPEN`, `CLOSED` or `CLOSING`. Once the connection is created it is in an `OPEN` status. When a `conn.close()` happens, the status will change to `CLOSING` and finally, after all the connection streams are properly closed, the status will be `CLOSED`.

Reviewer 2: Please clarify type. Also, can be string? "open", "closed", "closing"? Also this is an appropriate place to mention how I get hold of the "OPEN", "CLOSING" or "CLOSED" constants.

Author: I will use the strings then

#### Endpoints multiaddr

- `JavaScript` - `conn.endpoints`

> This property contains an object with the `local` and `remote` multiaddrs as properties. The `local` multiaddr is `undefined` until the connection is upgraded and `identify` finishes.

Reviewer 2: Remove this? It is just `localAddr` and `remoteAddr` right?

Also, `localAddr` will be populated initially but it may not have the peer ID.

#### Timeline

- `JavaScript` - `conn.timeline`

This property contains an object with the `open` and `close` timestamps of the connection. The `close` timestamp is `undefined` until the connection is closed.

#### Role of the connection

> - `JavaScript` - `conn.direction`

Reviewer 2: Do you think we should group metadata like direction, multiplexer, encryption into a `stat` property like `go-libp2p` https://godoc.org/github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p-core/network#Conn

```js
con.stat.direction
con.stat.multiplexer
con.stat.encryption
```

> This property contains the direction of the peer in the connection. It can be `INBOUND` or `OUTBOUND`.

Reviewer 2: Please clarify type, also this is an appropriate place to mention how I get hold of the "INBOUND" or "OUTBOUND" constants.

#### Multiplexer

- `JavaScript` - `conn.multiplexer`

> This property contains a reference to the `multiplexer` being used in the connection. It is `undefined` until the connection has been upgraded.

Reviewer 2: A `Connection` is multiplexed and encrypted. This should always have a value.

Reviewer 2: Can just be the codec for the multiplexer? Does it need to be the full instance?

#### Encryption

- `JavaScript` - `conn.encryption`

> This property contains the encryption method being used in the connection. It is `undefined` until the connection has been upgraded.

Reviewer 2: Encryption is optional right?

```suggestion
This property contains the encryption method being used in the connection. It is `undefined` if the connection is not encrypted.
```

#### Tags

- `JavaScript` - `conn.tags`

This property contains an array of tags associated with the connection. New tags can be pushed to this array during the connection's lifetime.

### Stream

A valid stream (one that follows this abstraction), must implement the following API:

- type: `Stream`
  - `new Stream()`

>   - `stream.source()`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `stream.source` - iterable object
```

>   - `stream.drain()`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `stream.sink` - Function
```

  - `stream.close()`

It can be obtained as follows:

```js
const { Stream } = require('interface-connection')
```

#### Creating a stream instance

> - `JavaScript` - `const stream = new Stream(iterableDuplex, connection, isInitator, options)`

Reviewer 2: `new Stream({ ... })` - object syntax like in `Connection`

Creates a new Stream instance.

`iterableDuplex` is a streaming iterable duplex object.

> `connection` is a reference to the connection associated with this stream.

Reviewer 2: In `Multiaddr Connection` we use `conn` to reference the underlying connection. Maybe we should use the same here or change `Multiaddr Connection`?

`isInitiator` is a `boolean` indicating whether the peer creating the Stream instance initiated the stream. Default value: `true`.
`options` is an object containing the stream options.

> `options.abortable` is a boolean for using the abortable signal. Default value: `true`.

Reviewer 2: `options.signal` instead?

#### Get a connection Source

- `JavaScript` - `stream.source`

This getter returns a reference to the connection "source", which is an iterable object that can be consumed.

#### Get a connection data collector

- `JavaScript` - `stream.sink`

This getter returns a reference to the connection "sink", which is an iterator that drains a source. 

#### Close connection

- `JavaScript` - `stream.close()`

This method closes a stream with the other peer.

It returns a `Promise`.

#### Stream identifier

- `JavaScript` - `stream.id`

This property contains the identifier of the stream.

#### Stream associated connection

- `JavaScript` - `stream.connection`

This property contains the connection associated with this stream.

#### Direction of the strean

- `JavaScript` - `stream.direction`

> This property contains the direction of the peer in the stream. It can be `INBOUND` or `OUTBOUND`.

Reviewer 2: Please clarify type

#### Timeline

- `JavaScript` - `stream.timeline`

> This property contains an object with the `open` and `close` timestamps of the stream. The `close` timestamp is `undefined` until the stream is closed.

Reviewer 2: Please clarify format and precision

- [js-libp2p-multiplex](https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-multiplex)
- [js-libp2p-secio](https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-secio)

## Badge

Include this badge in your readme if you make a module that is compatible with the `interface-connection` API. You can validate this by running the tests.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diasdavid/interface-connection/master/img/badge.png)

## Usage

### Connection

Before creating a connection from a transport compatible with `libp2p` it is important to understand some concepts:

- **socket**: the underlying raw duplex connection between two nodes. It is created by the transports during a dial/listen.
- **connection**: the abstract libp2p duplex connection between two nodes. The transport must pipe the `socket` through the connection.
- **stream**: a single duplex channel of the `connection`. Each connection may have many streams.

A connection stands for the libp2p communication duplex layer between two nodes. It is **not** the underlying raw transport duplex layer (socket), such as a TCP socket, but an abstracted layer that sits on top of the raw socket.

> When a libp2p transport creates is socket, a new instance should be created by extending the `connection` from `interface-connection` and transforming it into an iterable.

Author: this is not relevant now, as a result of the way transports use the upgrader with our current idea. I will remove it

This helps ensuring that the transport is responsible for socket management, while also allowing the application layer to handle the connection management.

```js
const abortable = require('abortable-iterator')

const { Connection } = require('interface-connection')

class Libp2pSocket extends Connection {
  constructor (rawSocket, ma, opts = {}) {
    super(ma, opts)

    this._rawSocket = rawSocket

    this.sink = this._sink(opts)
    this.source = opts.signal ? abortable(rawSocket.source, opts.signal) : rawSocket.source
  }

  _sink (opts) {
    return async (source) => {
      try {
        await this._rawSocket.sink(abortable(source, opts.signal))
      } catch (err) {
        // Re-throw non-aborted errors
        if (err.type !== 'aborted') throw err
        // Otherwise, this is fine...
        await this._rawSocket.close()
      }
    }
  }
}

> module.exports = Libp2pSocket

Author: I will remove it. Not relevant anymore with the upgrader logic

```

```js
const Libp2pSocket = require('./socket')

class Transport {
  async dial () {
    // ...

    // create the raw socket and the connection
    const socket = await this._connect()
    const conn = new libp2pSocket(socket, remoteMa, {})

    return conn
  }

  _connect () {}
}
```

### Test suite

#### JS

```js
describe('your connection', () => {
  require('interface-connection/src/tests')({
    async setup () {
      return YourConnection
    },
    async teardown () {
      // cleanup resources created by setup()
    }
  })
})
```

#### Go

> WIP

## API

### Connection

A valid connection (one that follows this abstraction), must implement the following API:

- type: `Connection`
  - `new Connection(remoteMa, isInitiator)`
  - `conn.getObservedAddrs()`
  - `conn.upgraded(multiplexer, encryption)`
  - `conn.setLocalAddress(multiaddr)`
  - `Promise<Stream> conn.newStream(options)`
  - `Array<Stream> conn.getStreams()`

>   - `Promise<> conn.close()`

Author: LGTM! I will change according to this

>   - `Promise<> conn.close()`

Reviewer 2: The open timestamp isn't necessarily going to be correct this way. It'll be the time that upgrader was called but anything could have happened between the socket being opened and the upgrader being called.

```js
const maConn = await socket.open()
const openTime = Date.now() // opened now
await pause(500) // for example, but could be anything...
const conn = await upgrader.upgradeOutbound(maConn)
console.log(conn.timeline.open) // openTime + 500
```

What if the open/close timestamp information was a property on the `maConn` and that it is passed to `Connection` when created?

```js
    const conn = new Connection({
      timeline: {
        open: maConn.timeline.open,
        upgraded: Date.now()
      },
      localAddr: maConn.localAddr,
      remoteAddr: maConn.remoteAddr,
      localPeer: this._peerId,
      remotePeer,
      newStream,
      close: err => maConn.close(err),
      direction: 'outbound'
    })
```

It is the **transport's responsibility** to set this timestamp correctly when it creates the connection. Then we don't need `Connection.attach` and can just create a full connection object in one shot.

>   - `Promise<> conn.close()`

Reviewer: This sounds good to me.

# API

## Connection

A valid connection (one that follows this abstraction), must implement the following API:

- type: `Connection`
  - `new Connection(peerInfo, remoteMa, isInitiator)`
  - `conn.upgraded(multiplexer, encryption)`
  - `conn.setLocalAddress(multiaddr)`
  - `Promise<Stream> conn.newStream(options)`
  - `Array<Stream> conn.getStreams()`
  - `Promise<> conn.close()`

It can be obtained as follows:

```js
const { Connection } = require('interface-connection')
```

### Creating a connection instance

- `JavaScript` - `const conn = new Connection(peerInfo, remoteMa, isInitiator = true)`

> 

Reviewer 3: It may be useful to people unfamiliar with the Connection interface to change the name of `peerInfo` to `remotePeerInfo`

Creates a new Connection instance.

`peerInfo` is a [PeerInfo](https://github.com/libp2p/js-peer-info) instance of the remote peer.
`remoteMa` is the [multiaddr](https://github.com/multiformats/multiaddr) address used to communicate with the remote peer.

> `isInitiator` is a `boolean` for signaling if the peer creating the connection instance was the responsible for the creation of the connection. Default value: `true`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`isInitiator` is a `boolean` indicating whether the peer creating the Connection instance initiated the connection. Default value: `true`.
```

### Update connection metadata after connection upgrade

- `JavaScript` - `conn.upgraded(multiplexer, encryption)`

Updates the connection metadata after being upgraded through the negotiation of the stream multiplexer and encryption protocols.

`multiplexer` is a stream muxer implementing the [interface-stream-muxer](https://github.com/libp2p/interface-stream-muxer).

> `encryption` is a `string` with the encryption protocol.

Reviewer 3: May be useful to give an example of an `encryption` string

### Set local address

- `JavaScript` - `conn.setLocalAddress(multiaddr)`

Set the local address used in the connection. It is obtained after running `identify`.

`multiaddr` is the local peer [multiaddr](https://github.com/multiformats/multiaddr) used. 

### Create a new stream

- `JavaScript` - `conn.newStream(protocol, options)`

Create a new stream within the connection.

> `protocol` is the intended protocol to use. This is optional and may be `undefined`.

Reviewer 3: May be useful to have an example of a `protocol` string

`options` is an object containing the stream options.
`options.signal` is a boolean for using the abortable signal. Default value: `true`.

> It returns a `Promise` with the intance of the created `Stream`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It returns a `Promise` with the instance of the created `Stream`.
```

### Get the connection Streams

- `JavaScript` - `conn.getStreams()`

Get all the streams associated with this connection.

It returns an `Array` with the instance of all the streams created in this connection.

### Close connection

- `JavaScript` - `conn.close()`

> This method closes a connection with other peer, as well as all the streams running in the connection.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This method closes the connection to the remote peer, as well as all the streams running in the connection.
```

It returns a `Promise`.

### Connection identifier

- `JavaScript` - `conn.id`

This property contains the identifier of the connection.

### Remote peer info

- `JavaScript` - `conn.peerInfo`

This property contains the remote peer info of this connection.

### Status of the connection

- `JavaScript` - `conn.status`

> This property contains the status of the connection. It can be either `OPEN`, `CLOSED` or `CLOSING`.

Reviewer 3: It may be useful to explain under which circumstances the state changes

### Endpoints multiaddr

- `JavaScript` - `conn.endpoints`

> This property contains an object with the `local` and `remote` multiaddrs as properties. While the connection was not upgraded and `identify` finished, the `local` multiaddr is `undefined`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This property contains an object with the `local` and `remote` multiaddrs as properties. The `local` multiaddr is `undefined` until the connection is upgraded and `identify` finishes.
```

### Timeline

- `JavaScript` - `conn.timeline`

> This property contains an object with the `open` and `close` timestamps of the connection. While the connection was not closed, the `close` timestamp is `undefined`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This property contains an object with the `open` and `close` timestamps of the connection. The `close` timestamp is `undefined` until the connection is closed.
```

### Role of the connection

- `JavaScript` - `conn.role`

This property contains the role of the peer in the connection. It can be `INITIATOR` or `RESPONDER`.

### Multiplexer

- `JavaScript` - `conn.multiplexer`

> This property contains the reference for the `multiplexer` being used in the connection. Before the connection being upgraded, this is `undefined`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This property contains a reference to the `multiplexer` being used in the connection. It is `undefined` until the connection has been upgraded.
```

### Encryption

- `JavaScript` - `conn.encryption`

> This property contains the encryption method being used in the connection. Before the connection being upgraded, this is `undefined`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This property contains the encryption method being used in the connection. It is `undefined` until the connection has been upgraded.
```

### Tags

- `JavaScript` - `conn.tags`

> This property contains an array of tags associated with the connection. New tags can be pushed to this array during the connection life.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This property contains an array of tags associated with the connection. New tags can be pushed to this array during the connection's lifetime.
```

## Stream

A valid stream (one that follows this abstraction), must implement the following API:

- type: `Stream`
  - `new Stream()`
  - `stream.source()`
  - `stream.sink()`
  - `stream.close()`

It can be obtained as follows:

```js
const { Stream } = require('interface-connection')
```

### Creating a stream instance

- `JavaScript` - `const stream = new Stream(iterableDuplex, connection, isInitator, options)`

Creates a new Stream instance.

`iterableDuplex` is a streaming iterable duplex object.
`connection` is a reference to the connection associated with this stream.

> `isInitiator` is a `boolean` for signaling if the peer creating the stream instance was the responsible for the creation it. Default value: `true`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`isInitiator` is a `boolean` indicating whether the peer creating the Stream instance initiated the stream. Default value: `true`.

```

`options` is an object containing the stream options.
`options.signal` is a boolean for using the abortable signal. Default value: `true`.

### Get a connection Source

- `JavaScript` - `stream.source`

> This getter returns the reference to the connection "source", which is an iterable object that can be consumed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This getter returns a reference to the connection "source", which is an iterable object that can be consumed.
```

### Get a connection data collector

- `JavaScript` - `stream.sink`

> This getter returns the reference to the connection "sink", which is an iterator that consumes (or drains) a source. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This getter returns a reference to the connection "sink", which is an iterator that consumes (or drains) a source. 
```

### Close connection

- `JavaScript` - `stream.close()`

This method closes a stream with the other peer.

It returns a `Promise`.

### Stream identifier

- `JavaScript` - `stream.id`

This property contains the identifier of the stream.

### Stream associated connection

- `JavaScript` - `stream.connection`

This property contains the connection associated with this stream.

### Role of the strean

- `JavaScript` - `stream.role`

This property contains the role of the peer in the stream. It can be `INITIATOR` or `RESPONDER`.

### Timeline

- `JavaScript` - `stream.timeline`

> This property contains an object with the `open` and `close` timestamps of the stream. While the stream was not closed, the `close` timestamp is `undefined`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This property contains an object with the `open` and `close` timestamps of the stream. The `close` timestamp is `undefined` until the stream is closed.
```

`isInitiator` is a `boolean` indicating whether the peer creating the Connection instance initiated the connection. Default value: `true`.

### Update connection metadata after connection upgrade

- `JavaScript` - `conn.upgraded(multiplexer, encryption)`

Updates the connection metadata after being upgraded through the negotiation of the stream multiplexer and encryption protocols.

`multiplexer` is a stream muxer implementing the [interface-stream-muxer](https://github.com/libp2p/interface-stream-muxer).
`encryption` is a `string` with the encryption protocol. Example: `/secio/1.0.0`.

### Set local address

- `JavaScript` - `conn.setLocalAddress(multiaddr)`

Set the local address used in the connection. It is obtained after running `identify`.

`multiaddr` is the local peer [multiaddr](https://github.com/multiformats/multiaddr) used. 

### Create a new stream

- `JavaScript` - `conn.newStream(protocol, options)`

Create a new stream within the connection.

`protocol` is the intended protocol to use. This is optional and may be `undefined`. Example: `/echo/1.0.0`
`options` is an object containing the stream options.

> `options.signal` is a boolean for using the abortable signal. Default value: `true`.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure it's clear what it means if `options.signal` is set to `true`. People viewing the docs may not know what abortable signals are, maybe we could add a sentence here with a brief explanation

Author: I will add it

Reviewer 4: Maybe it could be `options.abortable`?

Author: I also like abortable more! Will change it

It returns a `Promise` with the instance of the created `Stream`.

### Get the connection Streams

- `JavaScript` - `conn.getStreams()`

Get all the streams associated with this connection.

It returns an `Array` with the instance of all the streams created in this connection.

### Close connection

- `JavaScript` - `conn.close()`

This method closes the connection to the remote peer, as well as all the streams running in the connection.

It returns a `Promise`.

### Connection identifier

- `JavaScript` - `conn.id`

This property contains the identifier of the connection.

### Remote peer info

- `JavaScript` - `conn.peerInfo`

This property contains the remote peer info of this connection.

### Status of the connection

- `JavaScript` - `conn.status`

> This property contains the status of the connection. It can be either `OPEN`, `CLOSED` or `CLOSING`. Once the creating is created it is in an `OPEN` status. When a `conn.close()` happens, the status will change to `CLOSING` and finally, after all the connection streams are properly closed, the status will be `CLOSED`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This property contains the status of the connection. It can be either `OPEN`, `CLOSED` or `CLOSING`. Once the connection is created it is in an `OPEN` status. When a `conn.close()` happens, the status will change to `CLOSING` and finally, after all the connection streams are properly closed, the status will be `CLOSED`.
```

# API

> A valid connection (one that follows this abstraction) connection, must implement the following API:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A valid connection (one that follows this abstraction), must implement the following API:
```

**Table of contents:**

- type: `Connection`

>   - `new Connection(connection [, wrappedConnection])`

Reviewer 2: I'm interested to know if `wrappedConnection` is used and if so what for.

Author: Can you look at https://github.com/libp2p/interface-connection/pull/29/files#r277615681 for more context?

>   - `new Connection(connection [, wrappedConnection])`

Reviewer 2: We should probably not call the first parameter `connection` - it makes it seem like you must pass an instance of `Connection`.

You should actually pass a [streaming iterables duplex object](https://gist.github.com/alanshaw/591dc7dd54e4f99338a347ef568d6ee9#duplex-it).

It's probably also worth mentioning that `Connection` is compatible with the streaming iterables duplex object interface.

Author: When I did this, I had some thought on the name of this parameter. I started by calling it `stream` and I ended up moving because I thought it could get confused with the `Stream` interface too. However, I totally agree that `connection` is also a bad name. 

Can you think of any good naming here? Otherwise, we have to get a strange and long combination of `streaming iterables duplex object`

>   - `Promise<Multiaddr[]> conn.getObservedAddrs()`

Reviewer 2: It would be nice to have this sync if possible.

>   - `Promise<Multiaddr[]> conn.getObservedAddrs()`

Reviewer 2: What are observed addrs? Shouldn't any given connection operate over a single address?

In `go-libp2p` the [connection object](https://godoc.org/github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p-net#Conn) has a property that has a local and remote addr. That makes more sense to me...

Author: I agree with you, a connection operates over a single address!

I also agree with `go-libp2p` connection object. I will remove this function in favor of `getConnectionMultiaddrs()`

>   - `Promise<Multiaddr[]> conn.getObservedAddrs()`

Reviewer 3: Is it necessary for getObservedAddrs() to return a Promise?

Author: I went through all the usages of this interface so far, and I agree with you that we can just return the array of Multiaddr, as I do not see any use case for async interactions. I will modify this

  - `Promise<PeerInfo> conn.getPeerInfo()`

>   - `conn.setPeerInfo(peerInfo)`

Reviewer 2: Are these used? Feels like this information doesn't belong this low down.

Author: `setPeerInfo` is used in the context of the "wrappedConnection" and ensures that the peerInfo is set recursively on all Connection instances. It is typically called after crypto has identified and verified the peer. If we decide to get rid of the wrappedConnection, we can also remove this

>   - `Promise<> conn.close()`

Reviewer 2: \+ `conn.source`
\+ `conn.sink`

### Creating a connection instance

- `JavaScript` - `const conn = new Connection(connection, wrappedConnection)`

> Creates a new Connection instance. `connection` is the object responsible for allowing to read or write data through the connection, while `wrappedConnection` consists on another connection that may be wrapped into the first one.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure it's clear to someone unfamiliar with the API what it means that a connection can be wrapped into another connection

Author: I have been discussing this with @jacobheun 

We should not need the wrapped connection anymore because we don't have to support deferred connections, as a result of not being necessary to return a connection before it is actually ready with this async endeavour. Also, this `wrappedConnection` adds confusion and overhead to the connection logic.

The problem here is the usage of this wrappedConnection logic in some modules and removing it now will introduce a lot of other changes unrelated to the async migration. 

We can remove this if we are all comfortable with making this change. Otherwise, we can tackle it in a next step. Let me know your ideas

Reviewer: Yeah, wrapped is a misnomer. Ultimately it's a reference to an origin Connection to keep the PeerInfo and ObserverAddrs records up to date for all associated Connections. The existing connection pipeline constantly has `new Connection()` being used to "transform" the connection at various steps when including things like multistream, secio, or stream muxing.

This is where I think a basic test suite here would be really useful in determining what's needed and how we should be handling connection "upgrading", as well as providing working examples of how to use Connections.

### Get the Observed Addresses of the peer in the other end

- `JavaScript` - `conn.getObservedAddrs()`

This method retrieves the observed addresses we get from the underlying transport, if any.

> It should return a `Promise<multiaddrs>`, where `multiaddrs` is an array of [multiaddr](https://github.com/multiformats/multiaddr).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It should return a `Promise<Multiaddr[]>`, which resolves to an array of [Multiaddr](https://github.com/multiformats/multiaddr).
```

### Get the PeerInfo

- `JavaScript` - `conn.getPeerInfo()`

> This method retrieves the a Peer Info object, which contains information about the peer that this conn connects to.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This method retrieves the Peer Info object, which contains information about the peer that this conn connects to.
```

> It should return a `Promise<peerInfo>`, where peerInfo is a object of type [Peer Info](https://github.com/libp2p/js-peer-info)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It should return a `Promise<PeerInfo>`, which resolves to a [PeerInfo](https://github.com/libp2p/js-peer-info) object
```
